and the midday Sun the cold spring creek
is the only place to be but while she's
been cooling down the Cubs have wandered
off
she smells trouble first a wild fire
burning out of control
the Cubs spell it too but don't
understand
they never smelled smoke before
instinct takes over they run for the
trees
but in a wildfire that's the worst thing
to do
the wind pushes the fire closer
chopped up the trees the Cubs could be
burned alive
mother calls them down
she leads them around the blaze upwind
away from the heat and smoke
of all the forests dangers fire is the
biggest killer September in the
mountains when summer heat turns to
autumn chill for mother bear it's a time
of reckoning the Cubs have survived so
far but have they eaten enough to get
them through the winter they've
certainly filled out and look like
miniature versions of their mother but
there's still room for more food and
mother continues to teach them how to
find pine nuts acorns and berries
the Bears consumed thousands
the Cubs father is back on the scene and
leaves his calling card for now he's no
threat to the Cubs fairies are his
consuming passion he's a non-stop eating
machine putting on over 30 pounds a week
as the valleys start to flood swimming
is the quickest way to search for a
fresh berry patch fattening up is the
only thing on his mind he won't be
interested in mating until early next
summer